DOCSP-39706 retrieve data page (#55)
mongodb/docs-java-rs: source/retrieve-data.txt

.. _java-rs-retrieve:

=============
Retrieve Data
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: code examples, read, search, cursor

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-long+} to retrieve
data from a MongoDB collection by using read operations. 

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``sample_restaurants.restaurants`` collection
from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To learn how to create a
free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:ref:`<java-rs-getting-started>`.

> .. include:: includes/reactor-note.rst

Author: Note: this note has changed. The preview is not accurate: when deployed in, this note will say:

.. important:: Project Reactor Library

   This guide uses the Project Reactor library to consume ``Publisher`` instances returned
   by the {+driver-short+} methods. To learn more about the Project Reactor library
   and how to use it, see `Getting Started <https://projectreactor.io/docs/core/release/reference/#getting-started>`__ in the Reactor documentation. To learn more about how we use Project Reactor
   library methods in this guide, see :ref:`Write Data to MongoDB <write-data-reactor-overview>`.
   
The reason this is not reflected right now is that this is an old branch made before the note changed. It will reflect in the final product.

A query filter is an object that specifies the documents you want to retrieve in
your query. 

.. TODO: uncomment when specify query is merged in
.. To learn more about query filters, see :ref:`java-rs-specify-query`.

.. _java-rs-retrieve-find-one:

Find One Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To find a single document in a collection, chain the ``first()`` method to your
``find()`` method call and pass a query filter to the ``find()`` method call
that specifies the criteria of the document you want to find. If more than one document matches the query
filter, the ``find().first()`` construct returns the *first* matching document from the retrieved
results. If no documents match the query filter, the construct returns ``None``.

.. tip::
   
   The ``find().first()`` construct is useful when you know there's only one matching document,
   or you're interested only in the first match.  

The following example uses the ``find().first()`` construct to find the first document where
the ``"cuisine"`` field has the value ``"Bakery"``:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   Publisher<Document> findDocPublisher = restaurants.find(
       eq("cuisine", "Bakery")).first();

>    Flux.from(findDocPublisher)

Reviewer: As only expecting at most one result use a `Mono`: 

```suggestion
   Mono.from(findDocPublisher)
```

.. _java-rs-retrieve:

=============
Retrieve Data
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: code examples, read, search, cursor

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-long+} to retrieve
data from a MongoDB collection by using read operations. You can call the

> ``find()`` method to retrieve documents that match a set of criteria.

Reviewer 2: S: I would leave out this second sentence; it feels tacked on and doesn't add anything critical

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``sample_restaurants.restaurants`` collection
from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To learn how to create a
free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:ref:`<java-rs-getting-started>`.

.. include:: includes/reactor-note.rst

.. _java-rs-retrieve-find:

Find Documents
--------------

The {+driver-short+} includes one method for retrieving documents from a collection:
``find()``.

This method takes a **query filter** and returns one or more matching documents.
A query filter is an object that specifies the documents you want to retrieve in
your query. 

.. TODO: uncomment when specify query is merged in
.. To learn more about query filters, see :ref:`java-rs-specify-query`.

.. _java-rs-retrieve-find-one:

Find One Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To find a single document in a collection, call the ``find()`` method and pass a query
> filter that specifies the criteria of the document you want to find. Then, chain
> the ``first()`` method to find a single document. If more than one document matches the query

Reviewer 2: I: the opening clause already states the goal ("to find a single document..."), so i think you can leave it off of the end of the second sentence. it also sounds a little strange to say "chain the X method" without specifying a target. since the previous section just said to pass a query filter, maybe something like this would work better:

```suggestion
To find a single document in a collection, chain the ``first()`` method to your
``find()`` method call. and pass a query. If more than one document matches the query
```

Edit: after reading further, I see that removing the bit about the query filter breaks the parallel structure of find one and find multiple. one option is to put the Find Multiple section first, since it's technically simpler than Find One. then you could introduce Find One by saying something like, "Call find() as above, but also chain the first() method..."

Author: I'm not sure about putting find multiple first; keeping in line with other standardized pages, we start with "insert/retrieve/etc one" first and then multiple. i reworded it to be more in keeping with your suggestion though.

> filter, this construct returns the *first* matching document from the retrieved
> results. If no documents match the query filter, the method returns
> ``None``.

Reviewer 2: S: parallel sentences

```suggestion
filter, this ``find().first()`` construct returns the *first* matching document from the retrieved
results. If no documents match the query filter, the construct returns
``None``.
```

.. tip::
   
   The ``find().first()`` construct is useful when you know there's only one matching document,

>    or you're only interested in the first match.  

Reviewer 2: I: [placement of "only"](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#o:~:text=Place%20only%20preceding)

```suggestion
   or you're interested only in the first match.  
```

The following example uses the ``find().first()`` construct to find the first document where
the ``"cuisine"`` field has the value ``"Bakery"``:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   Publisher<Document> findDocPublisher = restaurants.find(
       eq("cuisine", "Bakery")).first();
   List<Document> findResult = Flux.from(findDocPublisher).collectList().block();
   
.. tip:: Sort Order

>    The ``find().first()`` construct returns the first document in 
>    :manual:`natural order </reference/glossary/#std-term-natural-order>`
>    on disk if no sort criteria is specified.

Reviewer 2: I: reword for active voice. one option:

```suggestion
   If you don't specify a sort order, he ``find().first()`` construct returns the first document in 
   :manual:`natural order. </reference/glossary/#std-term-natural-order>`
```

.. TODO: uncomment when sort guide made
.. To learn more about sorting, see the :ref:`sort guide <java-rs-sort>`.

.. _java-rs-retrieve-find-multiple:

Find Multiple Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To find multiple documents in a collection, pass a query filter to the ``find()``
method that specifies the criteria of the documents you want to retrieve.

The following example uses the ``find()`` method to find all documents where
the ``"cuisine"`` field has the value ``"Spanish"``:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   FindPublisher<Document> findDocPublisher = restaurants.find(
           eq("cuisine", "Spanish"));
   List<Document> findResult = Flux.from(findDocPublisher).collectList().block();

> You can iterate over the documents you retrieved using the ``find()`` method by using a ``for`` loop, as shown in
> the following example:

Reviewer 2: S: for length and clarity. probably no need to specify how the document were retrieved

```suggestion
You can iterate over the found documents by using a ``for`` loop, as shown in
the following example:
```

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   FindPublisher<Document> findDocPublisher = restaurants.find(
           eq("cuisine", "Spanish"));
   List<Document> findResult = Flux.from(findDocPublisher).collectList().block();
   
   for (Document document : findResult) {
   ...
   }

.. note:: Find All Documents

   To find all documents in a collection, pass no parameters to the ``find()`` method:

   .. code-block:: java

      Publisher<Document> findAllPublisher = restaurants.find();
      List<Document> findResult =
              Flux.from(findAllPublisher).collectList().block();
      

Modify Find Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can modify the behavior of the ``find()`` method by chaining methods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can modify the behavior of the ``find()`` method by chaining other methods
```

> to it. The following table describes commonly used methods:

Reviewer 2: Q: Is this explicitly *not* a complete list of available methods?

Author: Yes, mirroring the pymongo docs which did not provide a complete list

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Argument
     - Description

   * - ``batchSize(int batchSize)`` 

>      - | Limits the number of documents to hold in a cursor at a given time.

Reviewer 2: Q: At this point in the docs, do users have the context to understand cursors? If not, maybe link to the Server docs or the Java RS page where this concept is explained.

   * - ``collation(Collation collation)`` 

>      - | Sets the collation options as an instance of the Collation class. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - | Sets the collation options as an instance of the ``Collation`` class. 
```

   * - ``comment(String comment)`` 
     - | Attaches a string to the query. This can help you trace and interpret the
         operation in the server logs and in profile data. To learn more about query comments, 
         see the :manual:`$comment </reference/operator/query/comment/>` page.
   
   * - ``hint(Bson hint)`` 

>      - | Sets an index to use for the query.

Reviewer 2: Q: Do users know what this means?

Author: Added clarity

   * - ``maxTime(long maxTime, TimeUnit timeUnit)`` 
     - | Sets the maximum execution time on the server for this operation. If this time is
         exceeded, the {+driver-short+} aborts the operation and raises an ``ExecutionTimeout``.

The following example uses the ``find()`` method to find all documents where
the ``"cuisine"`` field has the value ``"Italian"`` and sets a maximum execution

> time of 10 seconds (10,000 milliseconds):

Reviewer 2: S: The seconds/milliseconds clarification is great in most cases, but the example explicitly uses ``TimeUnit.SECONDS``, so I don't think it's needed

```suggestion
time of 10 seconds:
```

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   FindPublisher<Document> findDocPublisher = restaurants.find(
           eq("cuisine", "Italian")).maxTime(10L, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
   List<Document> findResult = Flux.from(findDocPublisher).collectList().block();

For a full list of available arguments, see the
`API documentation <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-reactivestreams/com/mongodb/reactivestreams/client/FindPublisher.html>`__

> for the ``FindPublisher``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the ``FindPublisher`` interface.
```

           eq("cuisine", "Spanish"));
   List<Document> findResult = Flux.from(findDocPublisher).collectList().block();

> You can iterate over the documents you retrieved by using a ``for`` loop, as shown in

Reviewer 2: S: Could be read as meaning "the documents you retrieved with the ``for`` loop"

```suggestion
You can use a ``for`` loop to iterate over the documents you retrieved, as shown in
```
